samples: nrf9160: MQTT Multi-Service Sample (#7056)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/nrf9160/nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_service/README.rst

*********************************

This sample is separated into a number of smaller functional units.
The top level functional unit and entry point for the sample is :file:`src/main.c`.
This file starts three threads, each with a distinct function:

* Connection Thread (``conn_thread``): Runs the `Connection Management Loop <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_connection_management_loop_>`_, which maintains a connection to the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_.
* Application Thread (``app_thread``): Runs the `Main Application Loop <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_main_application_loop_>`_, which may add `Device Messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_ to the `Device Message Queue <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_device_message_queue_>`_.
* Message Thread (``msg_thread``): Processes the `Device Message Queue <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_device_message_queue_>`_ whenever there is an active connection.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_connection_management_loop:

Connection Management Loop
==========================

The Connection Management Loop performs four primary tasks:

1) Configure and activate the cellular modem.
#) Start a connection to the LTE Network.

> #) Maintain a connection to the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_.

Author: Hmm, yeah, you're not wrong -- I worry that being that specific may make the documentation harder to follow. The nice thing about mentioning the `nRF Cloud MQTT API` is that a reader can click on that reference. I don't think we have any specific docs for the MQTT broker in general.

I would make an analogy to the REST API -- If I claim to connect to a REST API, then technically that would be a connection to the HTTP server **_hosting_** the REST API, not to the API itself. It is generally understood that when I say "Connection to REST API", said connection will in actuality be to an HTTP server. But it is more communicative to mention the API, because the API is what will have Nordic-specific documentation, whereas the HTTP server architecture is usually not documented or even directly acknowledged in most cases

I think the same argument would apply here. What do you think?

> #) Maintain a connection to the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_.

Reviewer: Maybe instead just say "maintain a connection to nRF Cloud"

> #) Maintain a connection to the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_.

Author: Sure, though in cases where I am talking about aspects very specific to the API itself, such as:

> If the connection to `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_ does not become ready within this timeout

I feel I should still mention the API, if that's alright with you

#) Reestablish or retry all lost or failed connections.

> Modem setup and the RAN connection are set-and-forget.

Reviewer: Is "RAN" used elsewhere in the NCS docs?

Author: No, definitely not, you're right. I think other Nordic documentation just refers to it as "LTE". Maybe that is the better choice?

I went for RAN since it is the technology-agnostic term -- For instance, LTE/4G's RAN is, specifically, "EUTRAN": Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network". 3G's RAN was UTRAN: "UTMS Terrestrial Radio Access Network". 

I'm really crossed between the two terms. RAN feels like the "right" term, to me, but it is admittedly very rarely used. LTE is certainly the more commonly recognized term. Do you think I should switch to that?

Reviewer: I would follow precedent in other docs.  LTE is more common.  Leave it up to the docs team to make site-wide terminology changes when growth in Nordic's product offerings justifies it.  For example, we used to use GPS exclusively, and then eventually changed it to GNSS because the nRF9160 modem firmware now supports QZSS, and in the future, this or other products may support Galileo or other constellations.

Author: That makes sense, thank you

This is mostly handled by the :ref:`nrf_cloud library<lib_nrf_cloud>`, with exception to one task:
Whenever a user association request is received from `nRF Cloud`_, the application must manually disconnect and reconnect.
One of the cases inside the :func:`cloud_event_handler` function handles this.

The application must also manually reset its connection to `nRF Cloud`_ whenever connection to the LTE lost, or else the :ref:`nrf_cloud library<lib_nrf_cloud>` will deadlock.
One of the cases inside the :func:`lte_event_handler` function performs this task.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_device_message_queue:

Device Message Queue
====================

Any thread may submit `Device Messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_ to the Device Message Queue, where they will be stored until a working connection to the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_ is established.
Once this happens, the Message Thread transmits all enqueued `Device Messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_, one at a time and in fast succession, to `nRF Cloud`_.
Transmission pauses again whenever connection to the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_ is lost.

> Enqueued messages may be lost whenever the device transitions from connected to not connected.

Author: The transition itself, mainly because the device wrongly thinks it is still connected and attempts to transmit the message, and has no backup/recourse for if transmission fails.

> Enqueued messages may be lost whenever the device transitions from connected to not connected.

Reviewer: I wonder if MQTT QoS=1 would help?

Also, does it have a chance to try again if there is an immediate error returned from whatever function does the sending?

> Enqueued messages may be lost whenever the device transitions from connected to not connected.

Author: I'm not sure, for some disconnection types QoS=1 might help, for others it might not. I can look into it.

As for trying again, I did not implement a re-enqueue-on-failure. I had some reservations regarding sample complexity and retry limits, but in retrospect, I don't expect the outgoing message itself to ever be the issue, so indefinite retry shouldn't be a problem, and if I stick to just indefinite retry, then the added complexity is minimal. So I'll go ahead and implement that. Message transmission order will not be guaranteed, but I don't think that was ever guaranteed with MQTT anyways.

I'll want to bring back the minimum delay between message sends, though, @jayteemo, because otherwise the sample could potentially spin indefinitely trying to resend the same messages over and over again.

> Enqueued messages may be lost whenever the device transitions from connected to not connected.

Author: This is done now

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_structure_and_theory_of_operation:
.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_theory_of_operation:

Structure and Theory of Operation
*********************************

This sample is separated into a number of smaller functional units.
The top level functional unit and entry point for the sample is :file:`src/main.c`.
This file starts three threads, each with a distinct function:

* Connection Thread (``conn_thread``): Runs the `Connection Management Loop <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_connection_management_loop_>`_, which maintains a connection to `nRF Cloud`_.
* Application Thread (``app_thread``): Runs the `Main Application Loop <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_main_application_loop_>`_, which may add `device messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_ to the `Device Message Queue <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_device_message_queue_>`_.
* Message Thread (``msg_thread``): Processes the `Device Message Queue <nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_device_message_queue_>`_ whenever there is an active connection.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_connection_management_loop:

> Connection Management Loop

Author: I'll stick with our convention, then, and keep things lower case, even though title case would be my personal preference

==========================

The Connection Management Loop performs four primary tasks:

1) Configure and activate the cellular modem.
#) Start a connection to the LTE Network.
#) Maintain a connection to `nRF Cloud`_.

> #) Reestablish or retry all lost or failed connections.

Author: Believe it or not, this is actually a sequential set of tasks, -- they must be performed in this order, and this is the order in which the connection loop performs them. 

It's a subtle suggestion to the reader, for sure, using a numbered list, but someone familiar with networking concepts may pick up on it and find it useful. I don't explicitly state that the items are in order, because I worry that the 4th item would create some confusion for someone less familiar with networking concepts (because it, technically, happens at all stages throughout the loop in various capacities).

Does this change your mind on the matter, or do you still think it would be clearer to have this be an unordered list?

> #) Reestablish or retry all lost or failed connections.

Reviewer 2: Fine to have the list numbered if the things take place in that order (or rather the connection loop performs these tasks). But change the verb to third person form.

Modem setup and the LTE connection are set-and-forget.

> If connection to the LTE is lost, the modem automatically works to reestablish it.

Author: Can we switch this sentence to third person, since "you" in this case is the user of the sample, and the sample is what actually performs this work? To me, using "you" implies that the sample user will need to perform this task, and that is confusing.

For instance:

`The modem only needs to be set up and connected to LTE once.`

Or:

`This sample only needs to set up the modem and connect to LTE once.`

> If connection to the LTE is lost, the modem automatically works to reestablish it.

Reviewer 2: Fine with the third person. My bad trying too hard to make it too active.

This file also maintains a number of `Zephyr Events`_ tracking the state of the LTE and `nRF Cloud`_ connections.
The Connection Management Loop relies on these events to control its progression.

The Connection Management Loop must conform to the :ref:`nRF Cloud connection process <lib_nrf_cloud_connect>`.
This is mostly handled by the :ref:`nrf_cloud library<lib_nrf_cloud>`, with exception to one behavior:
When a device is first being associated with an `nRF Cloud`_ account, the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_ will send a user association request notification to the device.
Upon receiving this notification, the device must wait for a user association success notification, and then manually disconnect from and reconnect to `nRF Cloud`_.
User association success notifications are for every subsequent connection after this as well, so the device must only disconnect and reconnect if it previously received a user association request notification.
This behavior is handled by the ``NRF_CLOUD_EVT_USER_ASSOCIATION_REQUEST`` and ``NRF_CLOUD_EVT_USER_ASSOCIATED`` cases inside the :func:`cloud_event_handler` function in :file:`src/connection.c`.

> The application must also manually reset its connection to `nRF Cloud`_ whenever connection to the LTE lost, or else the :ref:`nrf_cloud library<lib_nrf_cloud>` will deadlock.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The application must also manually reset its connection to `nRF Cloud`_ whenever LTE connection is lost, or else the :ref:`nrf_cloud library<lib_nrf_cloud>` will deadlock.
```

The required kconfig options are implicitly enabled by :ref:`CONFIG_TEMP_DATA_USE_SENSOR <CONFIG_TEMP_DATA_USE_SENSOR>`.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_location_tracking:
.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_location:

Location Tracking
=================

All matters concerning location tracking are handled in :file:`src/location_tracking.c`.
For the most part, this amounts to setting up a periodic location request, and then passing the results to a callback configured by :file:`src/application.c`.
However, there are a couple of other tasks which must additionally be implemented:

Firstly, the :ref:`location library <lib_location>` requires assisted GPS (AGPS) data in order have the fastest possible `time-to-first-fix <TTFF_>`_.
The :ref:`location library <lib_location>` requests this data automatically, but has no way to automatically receive the response.
Therefore, all MQTT messages received from `nRF Cloud`_ must be be passed directly through to the :ref:`nRF Cloud AGPS library <lib_nrf_cloud_agps>` to be checked for AGPS data.
The :func:`location_agps_data_handler` function handles this task, and is sent MQTT messages directly from :file:`src/connection.c`

> Secondly, the GNSS module cannot obtain a lock without the antenna first being properly configured.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Secondly, the GNSS module cannot obtain a fix without the antenna first being properly configured.
```

This configuration is performed by :func:`gnss_antenna_configure`.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_test_counter:

Test Counter
============

> A test counter may optionally be enabled by enabling :ref:`CONFIG_TEST_COUNTER <CONFIG_TEST_COUNTER>`.

Reviewer: good idea

Author: Thanks! It was supremely helpful during testing, and simple enough, I decided to keep it in the sample.

Every time a sensor sample is sent, this counter is incremented by one, and its current value is sent to `nRF Cloud`_.
The value of the counter over time is automatically graphed in the `nRF Cloud`_ portal.

> This counter is useful for tracking, visualizing, and debugging connection loss, reset, and reestablishment behavior.

Author: Deviated slightly to make clear the advantages inherent to **_plotting_** the counter value. Moreso a problem with what I originally wrote than your suggested changes

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_device_message_formatting:

Device Message Formatting
=========================

> This sample manually constructs JSON-based `device messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_ using `cJSON`_.

Reviewer: "Manually" seems out of place to me.  It would be manual if the code used snprintf to build the JSON, but instead, it uses the cJSON library.  Or maybe I'm missing what "automatically" or "implicitly" would mean in this case?

Author: Fair -- arguably, "automatic" would involve some use of the `nrf_codec` functions instead of directly constructing cJSON messages, but I agree it makes more sense just saying "constructs" instead of "manually constructs"

   Enable to request Power Saving Mode from cellular network.

.. _CONFIG_LTE_INIT_RETRY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_LTE_INIT_RETRY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - LTE initialization retry timeout
   Sets the number of seconds between each LTE modem initialization retry.

.. _CONFIG_CLOUD_CONNECTION_RETRY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_CLOUD_CONNECTION_RETRY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - Cloud connection retry timeout (seconds)
   If connecting to `nRF Cloud`_ takes longer than this timeout, it will be reattempted.

.. _CONFIG_CLOUD_CONNECTION_REESTABLISH_DELAY_SECONDS:

CONFIG_CLOUD_CONNECTION_REESTABLISH_DELAY_SECONDS - Cloud connection reestablishment delay (seconds)
   After the connection to `nRF Cloud`_ has been reset, wait this amount of time before attempting to connect again.

.. _CONFIG_CLOUD_READY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_CLOUD_READY_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - Cloud readiness timeout (seconds)
   If the connection to `nRF Cloud`_ does not become ready within this timeout, the sample will reset its connection and try again.

.. _CONFIG_DATE_TIME_ESTABLISHMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

CONFIG_DATE_TIME_ESTABLISHMENT_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - Modem date and time establishment timeout (seconds)

>    The sample will wait this many seconds for the modem to determine the current date and time before giving up and moving on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Sets the timeout for modem date and time establishment (in seconds).
   The sample waits for this number of seconds for the modem to determine the current date and time before giving up and moving on.
```

CONFIG_APPLICATION_THREAD_STACK_SIZE - Application Thread Stack Size (bytes)
   Sets the stack size (in bytes) for the application thread of the sample.

.. _CONFIG_CONNECTION_THREAD_STACK_SIZE:

CONFIG_CONNECTION_THREAD_STACK_SIZE - Connection Thread Stack Size (bytes)
   Sets the stack size (in bytes) for the connection thread of the sample.

.. _CONFIG_MESSAGE_THREAD_STACK_SIZE:

CONFIG_MESSAGE_THREAD_STACK_SIZE - Message Queue Thread Stack Size (bytes)
   Sets the stack size (in bytes) for the message queue processing thread of the sample.

.. _CONFIG_MAX_OUTGOING_MESSAGES:

CONFIG_MAX_OUTGOING_MESSAGES - Outgoing message maximum
   Sets the maximum number of messages that can be in the outgoing message queue.
   Messages submitted past this limit will not be enqueued.

.. _CONFIG_MAX_CONSECUTIVE_SEND_FAILURES:

CONFIG_MAX_CONSECUTIVE_SEND_FAILURES - Max outgoing consecutive send failures
   Sets the maximum number of device messages which may fail to send before a connection reset and cooldown is triggered.

.. _CONFIG_CONSECUTIVE_SEND_FAILURE_COOLDOWN_SECONDS:

CONFIG_CONSECUTIVE_SEND_FAILURE_COOLDOWN_SECONDS - Cooldown after max consecutive send failures exceeded (seconds)

>    If a connection reset is triggered by too many failed device messages, the sample will wait this long (in seconds) before trying again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Sets the cooldown time (in seconds) after the maximum number of consecutive send failures exceeds.
   If a connection reset is triggered by too many failed device messages, the sample waits for this long (in seconds) before trying again.
```

.. _CONFIG_SENSOR_SAMPLE_INTERVAL_SECONDS:

CONFIG_SENSOR_SAMPLE_INTERVAL_SECONDS - Sensor sampling interval (seconds)
   Sets the time to wait between each temperature sensor sample.

> .. warning::
>    Every time a sensor sample is sent, it will interrupt any attempted GNSS fix.
>    If you set this interval too short, there will not be enough time to ever acquire a fix.
>    In good conditions, and with AGPS data, one minute is generally just barely long enough to get a fix most of the time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note::
   Every time a sensor sample is sent, it interrupts any attempted GNSS fix.
   If you set this interval too short, there is not enough time to acquire a fix.
   In good conditions, and with A-GPS data, one minute is generally just barely long enough to get a fix most of the time.
```
We are not supposed to use warnings, unless a task or process is life threatening.

Author: Oh, my bad. Good to know, thank you.

>    In good conditions, and with AGPS data, one minute is generally just barely long enough to get a fix most of the time.

Reviewer 3: I don't think we want make such statement and it should not take so long anyway with A-GPS. I did not get into reviewing the code yet - maybe there is something else taking up the time if you experienced it takes such a long time?

Reviewer 3: Did you use Thingy for testing btw? The TTFF (time to first fix) will be somewhat longer on Thingy due to worse internal antenna. I guess my point is just that TTFF will vary wildly depending on a million different things and I am hesitant to put out a number (let alone one that will make the GNSS performance look bad). YMMV

Author: Since writing that statement my fix times appear to be on the order of 10 to 20 seconds, but a sampling interval of 60 seconds with 20 seconds of extra time for cellular fallback results in a 40 second GNSS fix timeout, which is twice the nominal delay under ideal conditions (20 seconds), so I felt that one minute was the shortest interval that one can **_safely_** pick, including all tolerancing.

I could probably soften the languaging quite a bit -- the way I wrote it implies that anything under a minute will start failing to fix a significant portion of the time, and that's not quite true either.

Do you think that:

> In good conditions, and with AGPS data, one minute is a reasonable interval for reliably getting a fix.

Oh, and yes, I **_am_** using a thingy!

Author: So it turns out that I had a bit of a brain glitch and documented this issue **_twice_**, once in the sensor sampling period section, and once in the location sampling period section. The location sampling period, AFAICT, does not actually come into play for ensuring GNSS fix. I have combined both of my statements on this issue into a single statement under the CONFIG_SENSOR_SAMPLE_INTERVAL_SECONDS Kconfig option documentation.

Reviewer 3: I am fine with your proposal. Maybe something you wrote here could also be included. Fore example: "In good conditions, and with A-GPS data, one minute is a reasonable interval for reliably getting a location estimate. This allows using long enough value for GNSS_FIX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS, while still leaving enough time for falling back to cellular positioning in case GNSS fails to obtain a fix." 

Btw. the code is very well written and easy to read, good job!

Author: Thank you! Code readability was probably my #1 goal, so it is a relief to hear that it is readable to someone other than myself.

.. _CONFIG_GNSS_ANTENNA_ONBOARD:

CONFIG_GNSS_ANTENNA_ONBOARD - Select the onboard GNSS antenna (default)

>    This option enables the onboard GNSS antenna.
> 
> 
> .. _CONFIG_GNSS_ANTENNA_EXTERNAL:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This option enables the onboard GNSS antenna.

.. _CONFIG_GNSS_ANTENNA_EXTERNAL:
```

CONFIG_GNSS_ANTENNA_EXTERNAL - Select an external GNSS antenna

>    This option enables the external GNSS antenna.
> 
> 
> .._CONFIG_GNSS_AT_MAGPIO:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   This option enables the external GNSS antenna.

.._CONFIG_GNSS_AT_MAGPIO:
```

CONFIG_GNSS_AT_MAGPIO - ``AT%XMAGPIO`` command

>    Sets the ``AT%XMAGPIO`` command to be sent to GNSS module. Leave empty if this command should not be sent. This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly. See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Sets the ``AT%XMAGPIO`` command to be sent to the GNSS module.
   Leave empty, if this command should not be sent.
   This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly.
   See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.
```

.._CONFIG_GNSS_AT_COEX0:

CONFIG_GNSS_AT_COEX0 - ``AT%XCOEX0`` command

>    Sets the ``AT%XCOEX0`` command to be sent to GNSS module. Leave empty if this command should not be sent. This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly. See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Sets the ``AT%XCOEX0`` command to be sent to the GNSS module.
   Leave empty if this command should not be sent.
   This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly.
   See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.
```

>    Sets the ``AT%XCOEX0`` command to be sent to GNSS module. Leave empty if this command should not be sent. This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly. See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.

Reviewer 3: In the context of this sample, I don't think the user would need to mess with these two config items. They get correct values based on the board and antenna configuration. Therefore I think it might be confusing if they are mentioned here. Or if you want to keep them (for the sake of completeness) maybe you could alter the comment to state what I just wrote.

Author: I agree, although I do wish to keep them in the documentation for completeness, since they are required for the sample to operate correctly.

I will do as you suggest, and alter the comment.

The body now reads:
```

   Sets the ``AT%XMAGPIO`` command to be sent to the GNSS module.
   Leave empty if this command should not be sent.
   This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly.

   A reasonable value (that selects the internal GNSS antenna) is automatically selected for this option based on the build target.
   You should never have to mess with it yourself unless you are using a non-standard board or custom GNSS antenna.
   See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.
  ```

.._CONFIG_GNSS_FIX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS:

> CONFIG_GNSS_FIX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - GNSS Fix timeout (seconds)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CONFIG_GNSS_FIX_TIMEOUT_SECONDS - GNSS fix timeout (seconds)
```

>    On each location sample, try for this long to achieve a GNSS fix before falling back to cellular positioning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Sets the GNSS fix timeout in seconds.
   On each location sample, try for this long to achieve a GNSS fix before falling back to cellular positioning.
```

> .. warning::
> 	Set this to 20 or so seconds below the sensor sample interval so that there is time left over to perform cellular positioning.
> 	Otherwise, location samples may occur at a longer interval than requested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note::
	Set this to approximately 20 seconds below the sensor sample interval so that there is time left to perform cellular positioning.
	Otherwise, location samples may occur at a longer interval than requested.
```

.. _CONFIG_LOCATION_SAMPLE_INTERVAL_SECONDS:

CONFIG_LOCATION_SAMPLE_INTERVAL_SECONDS - Location sampling interval (seconds)
   Sets the location sampling interval in seconds.

> .. warning::
>    The default sensor sampling interval, 60 seconds, will quickly consume cellular data, and should not be used in a production environment.
>    Instead, consider using a less frequent interval, and, if necessary, combining multiple sensor samples into a single device message, or combining multiple `device messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_ using the `d2c/bulk device message topic <nRF Cloud MQTT Topics_>`_.
>    Bear in mind that if you significantly increase the sampling interval, you must keep :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MQTT_KEEPALIVE` short to avoid the carrier silently closing the MQTT connection due to inactivity, which could result in dropped device messages.
>    The exact maximum value depends on your carrier. In general, a few minutes or less should work well.
> 
> .. warning::
>    Note also that decreasing the sensor sampling interval too much can prevent GNSS lock.
>    This is because the modem can only receive GNSS data when it is not transmitting on the LTE network.
>    Sample intervals of less than about one minute will prevent the modem from being idle long enough to obtain a GNSS lock.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note::
   The default sensor sampling interval, 60 seconds, will quickly consume cellular data, and should not be used in a production environment.
   Instead, consider using a less frequent interval, and if necessary, combining multiple sensor samples into a single `device message <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_ , or combining multiple device messages using the `d2c/bulk device message topic <nRF Cloud MQTT Topics_>`_.
   If you significantly increase the sampling interval, you must keep the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MQTT_KEEPALIVE` short to avoid the carrier silently closing the MQTT connection due to inactivity, which could result in dropped device messages.
   The exact maximum value depends on your carrier.
   In general, a few minutes or less should work well.

   Decreasing the sensor sampling interval too much can prevent a GNSS lock.
   This is because the modem can only receive GNSS data when it is not transmitting on the LTE network.
   Sample intervals of less than about one minute prevent the modem from being idle long enough to obtain a GNSS lock.
```

>    Note also that decreasing the sensor sampling interval too much can prevent GNSS lock.
>    This is because the modem can only receive GNSS data when it is not transmitting on the LTE network.
>    Sample intervals of less than about one minute will prevent the modem from being idle long enough to obtain a GNSS lock.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Note also that decreasing the sensor sampling interval too much leads to more frequent use of LTE connection, which can prevent GNSS from obtaining a fix.
   This is because GNSS can operate only when the LTE connection is not active.
   The exact time required to obtain a GNSS fix will vary depending on e.g. the current visibility of satellites, time since last fix and the type of the antenna used.
```

Author: These statements were in the wrong section (I think -- either that, or it as the other set of statements). I have merged both duplicated statement sets into a single statement set in the correct location.

.. _CONFIG_TEMP_DATA_USE_SENSOR:

CONFIG_TEMP_DATA_USE_SENSOR - Use genuine temperature data
   Sets whether to take genuine temperature measurements from a connected BME680 sensor, or just simulate sensor data.

.. _CONFIG_TEST_COUNTER:

CONFIG_TEST_COUNTER - Enable test counter
   Sets whether the test counter is enabled.

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove extra empty line.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_building:
.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_running:

> .. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_building_and_running:

Reviewer 2: Again, so many different labels. One should be enough.

It also demonstrates how to implement error tolerance in your cellular applications without relying on reboot loops.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_requirements:

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
   :header: heading
   :sample-yaml-rows:

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_features:

Features
********

This sample implements or demonstrates the following features:

* Error-tolerant use of the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_ using the :ref:`nrf_modem <nrfxlib:nrf_modem>` and :ref:`nrf_cloud <lib_nrf_cloud>` libraries.
* Support for `Firmware-Over-The-Air (FOTA) update service <nRF Cloud Getting Started FOTA documentation_>`_ using the `nRF Cloud`_ portal.
* Support for `modem AT commands <AT Commands Reference Guide_>`_ over UART using the :ref:`lib_at_host` library.
* Periodic cellular and GNSS location tracking using the :ref:`lib_location` library.
* Periodic temperature sensor sampling on your `Nordic Thingy:91`_, or fake temperature  measurements on your `Nordic nRF9160 DK`_.

> * Transmission of sensor and GNSS location samples to the `nRF Cloud`_ portal as `nRF Cloud device messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Transmission of sensor and GNSS location samples to the nRF Cloud portal as `nRF Cloud device messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_.
```

This file starts three threads, each with a distinct function:

* The connection thread (``conn_thread``) runs the :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_connection_management_loop`, which maintains a connection to `nRF Cloud`_.
* The application thread (``app_thread``) Runs the :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_application_thread_and_main_application_loop`, which may add `device messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_ to the :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_device_message_queue`.
* The message thread (``msg_thread``) processes the :ref:`nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_device_message_queue` whenever there is an active connection.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_connection_management_loop:

Connection management loop
==========================

The connection management loop performs the following four primary tasks:

1) Configure and activate the cellular modem.
#) Start a connection to the LTE Network.
#) Maintain a connection to `nRF Cloud`_.
#) Re-establish or retry all lost or failed connections.

Modem setup and the LTE connection are set-and-forget.
If LTE is lost, the modem automatically works to re-establish it.

> The connection to `nRF Cloud`_ must be maintained manually by the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The connection to nRF Cloud must be maintained manually by the application.
```

A significant portion of the :file:`src/connection.c` file is dedicated to this task.

> This file also maintains a number of `Zephyr Events`_ tracking the state of the LTE and `nRF Cloud`_ connections.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This file also maintains a number of `Zephyr Events`_ tracking the state of the LTE and nRF Cloud connections.
```

The connection management loop relies on these events to control its progression.

The connection management loop must conform to the :ref:`nRF Cloud connection process <lib_nrf_cloud_connect>`.
This is mostly handled by the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library, with exception to the following behavior:

> When a device is first being associated with an `nRF Cloud`_ account, the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_ will send a user association request notification to the device.
> Upon receiving this notification, the device must wait for a user association success notification, and then manually disconnect from and reconnect to `nRF Cloud`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a device is first being associated with an nRF Cloud account, the `nRF Cloud MQTT API`_ will send a user association request notification to the device.
Upon receiving this notification, the device must wait for a user association success notification, and then manually disconnect from and reconnect to nRF Cloud.
```

Notifications of user association success are sent for every subsequent connection after this as well, so the device must only disconnect and reconnect if it previously received a user association request notification.
This behavior is handled by the ``NRF_CLOUD_EVT_USER_ASSOCIATION_REQUEST`` and ``NRF_CLOUD_EVT_USER_ASSOCIATED`` cases inside the :c:func:`cloud_event_handler` function in the :file:`src/connection.c` file.

> The application must also manually reset its connection to `nRF Cloud`_ whenever LTE is lost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The application must also manually reset its connection to nRF Cloud whenever LTE is lost.
```

Otherwise, the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud` library will deadlock.
The ``LTE_LC_EVT_NW_REG_STATUS`` case inside the :c:func:`lte_event_handler` function performs this task.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_device_message_queue:

Device message queue
====================

Any thread may submit `device messages <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_ to the device message queue, where they are stored until a working connection to `nRF Cloud`_ is established.

> Once this happens, the message thread transmits all enqueued device messages, one at a time and in fast succession, to `nRF Cloud`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once this happens, the message thread transmits all enqueued device messages, one at a time and in fast succession, to nRF Cloud.
```

If an enqueued message fails to send, it will be sent back to the queue and tried again later.
If more than :ref:`CONFIG_MAX_CONSECUTIVE_SEND_FAILURES <CONFIG_MAX_CONSECUTIVE_SEND_FAILURES>` messages fail to send in a row, the connection to nRF Cloud is reset and re-established after a short delay.

> The transmission pauses again whenever connection to `nRF Cloud`_ is lost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The transmission pauses again whenever connection to nRF Cloud is lost.
```

Additionally, the following two tasks which must be implemented:

* The :ref:`lib_location` library requires assisted GPS (A-GPS) data to have the fastest possible `time-to-first-fix <TTFF_>`_.
  The library requests this data automatically, but has no way to automatically receive the response.
  Therefore, all MQTT messages received from `nRF Cloud`_ must be be passed directly through to the :ref:`lib_nrf_cloud_agps` library to be checked for A-GPS data.
  The :c:func:`location_agps_data_handler` function handles this task, and MQTT messages are sent directly to it from the :file:`src/connection.c` file.
* The GNSS module cannot obtain a fix without the antenna first being properly configured.
  This configuration is performed by the :c:func:`gnss_antenna_configure` function.

.. _nrf_cloud_mqtt_multi_services_sample_test_counter:

Test counter
============

You can enable a test counter by enabling the :ref:`CONFIG_TEST_COUNTER <CONFIG_TEST_COUNTER>` option.
Every time a sensor sample is sent, this counter is incremented by one, and its current value is sent to `nRF Cloud`_.

> A plot of the value of the counter over time is automatically shown in the `nRF Cloud`_ portal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A plot of the value of the counter over time is automatically shown in the nRF Cloud portal.
```
We already have a link to nRF Cloud above.

Author: Sorry about that! I should have them corrected now.

   The default sensor sampling interval, 60 seconds, will quickly consume cellular data, and should not be used in a production environment.
   Instead, consider using a less frequent interval, and if necessary, combining multiple sensor samples into a single `device message <nRF Cloud Device Messages_>`_ , or combining multiple device messages using the `d2c/bulk device message topic <nRF Cloud MQTT Topics_>`_.

   If you significantly increase the sampling interval, you must keep the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_MQTT_KEEPALIVE` short to avoid the carrier silently closing the MQTT connection due to inactivity, which could result in dropped device messages.
   The exact maximum value depends on your carrier.
   In general, a few minutes or less should work well.

.. _CONFIG_GNSS_ANTENNA_ONBOARD:

CONFIG_GNSS_ANTENNA_ONBOARD - Select the onboard GNSS antenna (default)
   This option enables the onboard GNSS antenna.

.. _CONFIG_GNSS_ANTENNA_EXTERNAL:

CONFIG_GNSS_ANTENNA_EXTERNAL - Select an external GNSS antenna
   This option enables the external GNSS antenna.

.._CONFIG_GNSS_AT_MAGPIO:

CONFIG_GNSS_AT_MAGPIO - ``AT%XMAGPIO`` command

>    Sets the ``AT%XMAGPIO`` command to be sent to the GNSS module.
>    Leave empty if this command should not be sent.
>    This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly.
> 
>    A reasonable value (that selects the internal GNSS antenna) is automatically selected for this option based on the build target.
>    You should never have to mess with it yourself unless you are using a non-standard board or custom GNSS antenna.
>    See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Sets the ``AT%XMAGPIO`` command to be sent to the GNSS module.
   This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly.

   An appropriate value is automatically selected for this option based on the build target.
   You should not need to change it yourself unless you are using a non-standard board or a custom GNSS antenna.
   See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.
```
The value of MAGPIO does not seem to depend on GNSS_ANTENNA_ONBOARD/GNSS_ANTENNA_EXTERNAL so I would remove the reference to internal GNSS antenna from here. I believe "messing with something" is somewhat informal, sorry I used it in the first place :) Also I would remove "Leave empty if this command should not be sent." because that would be exactly the kind of fiddling we want to discourage.

Author: Ah, good points!

.._CONFIG_GNSS_AT_COEX0:

CONFIG_GNSS_AT_COEX0 - ``AT%XCOEX0`` command

>    Sets the ``AT%XCOEX0`` command to be sent to the GNSS module.
>    Leave empty if this command should not be sent.
>    This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly.
> 
>    A reasonable value (that selects the internal GNSS antenna) is automatically selected for this option based on the build target.
>    You should never have to mess with it yourself unless you are using a non-standard board or custom GNSS antenna.
>    See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Sets the ``AT%XCOEX0`` command to be sent to the GNSS module.
   This command must be sent for GNSS to function properly.

   An appropriate value is automatically selected for this option based on the build target and selected antenna configuration.
   You should not need to change it yourself unless you are using a non-standard board or a custom GNSS antenna.
   See `nRF9160 SiP pin configuration`_ for more details.
```
